Let's talk about evaluating our compliance obligations.
Now, when I'm thinking about doing this evaluation,
whether it's a standard or regulation, law,
contract, what have you,
I like to think about breaking down the control objectives to their simplest form.
I do this by thinking about Boolean logic.
Boolean, of course, generally representing a binary variable,
true or false, on or off.
That's the reason I think about control objectives in that way.
I want to know exactly what my organization must
do without any of the pretense or extraneous language.
Let me give you an example.
What are the steps that you need to play basketball?
First, before we get to the steps,
your control objectives will always have a subject.
You have to find that subject.
In this example, the subject is playing basketball.
That's our actual objective.
Then we'll say that there are three initial steps to playing basketball.
You have to buy a basketball,
pump it up, and spend some time dribbling it.
In Boolean search, there four operative search terms.
There's AND, there's NOT,
there's OR, and there's AND NOT.
That's the lens that I want to look at our example through.
If I want to play basketball,
I have to do all three.
Meaning, buy the basketball and pump it up and dribble it or doesn't work here.
Can I buy a basketball or pump it up?
No, that wouldn't be compliant with our statement.
Let's look at a more real-world example.
Here's an extract from the 14 Cloud Security Principles.
This is a little more wordy than our last example,
but Section 5.2 spells out,
what service providers must do related to
vulnerability management and the goals that they must
accomplish in order to become compliant.
These are control objectives.
Let's try to get at this with a more Boolean approach.
Section 5.2 says that service providers should have
a management process in place to identify,
triage, and mitigate vulnerabilities.
What's in our subject?
It says that we have to have management processes.
That's a pretty good place to start.
But these aren't just any management processes,
they're ones that identify, triage,
and mitigate vulnerabilities, so we should include that as well.
Then we've got to move to our control objectives.
These are the goals.
Each of the bullet points here represents its own goal.
Here we actually see three of those.
Knowing that each bullet point represents its own control objective,
let's look at the first two,
starting with the first control objective.
What's it really asking for?
Remember, we said that our subject was a management process that identifies,
triages, and mitigates vulnerabilities.
I've rewritten the first objective here just to indicate that we have
a management process that identifies potential new threats, vulnerabilities, and etc.
That's one control objective.
Now, same thing with the second one.
I've written it here to make it clear that
the second control objective is a separate objective altogether.
Are you required to do one or both of these?
There really is no language indicating that you have a choice between the two.
To meet the latter of this section,
you must meet the first control objective and the second.
Now let's complicate this just a bit.
What if we had another option?
What if we could hire a company to manage these for us?
This really means that we can meet
this control objective by either doing the first two items,
one and two, or the third.
We've talked a lot about how governance
professionals evaluate obligations and control objectives.
But what happens when a security obligation is non-specific?
Meaning, there aren't control objectives that detail security expectations.
It's pretty common. Not every obligation is specific.
Here's an example of something you might see.
Vendors must maintain an information security management system
that aligns with industry best practices.
What would you do in a case like this?
Typically what you want to do is just do your best and be able to provide
some reasoning as to why what you're doing complies with the spirit of this statement.
A great way to do that is to examine some best practices and
other standards to design a control or program that works for your organization.
If you can explain that you've examined three separate standards, for instance,
and that your program is based on those standards,
you're probably in pretty good shape.